Add documentation about how to use the metalk8s UI (#1182)
scality/metalk8s: docs/metalk8s-ui.rst

MetalK8s UI
===========

.. todo::

  The following test has been realized on vagrant only - One should list

>   all requirements for reaching the UI using an operationnal cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all requirements for reaching the UI using an operational cluster.
```

Author: Correction done.

Gather required information
----------------------------

> Run all following commands as ``root`` on the bootstrap node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run all following commands as ``root`` on the bootstrap node.
```

Author: Done.

Get the workload plane IP of the bootstrap node. 

> On vagrant you can obtain it with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a Vagrant environment (see :doc:`/developer/building/local_cluster`), you can obtain it with:
```

Author: Change done.

.. code-block:: shell

      $ ip a show eth1

Please note the IP address, then let's get the port number:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf get svc metalk8s-ui -n kube-system

   NAME                  TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
   metalk8s-ui           NodePort    10.104.61.208   <none>        80:30923/TCP     3h

Please note the port used by metalk8s-ui (here ``30923``)

Use MetalK8s UI
---------------

Once you have gathered the IP address and the port number, open your
web browser and navigate to the URL ``http://<ip>:<port>``, replacing
placeholders with the values retrieved before.

The login page is loaded. At the bottom left on the page, click on the link

> ``Accept SSL Certificat``. On the new tab, click on the button ``Advanced...``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Accept SSL Certificate``. On the new tab, click on the button ``Advanced...``
```

Author: correction done.

> then on ``Accept the risk and continue``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then on ``Accept the risk and continue``.
```

Author: change done.

> Go back on the first tab, then log in with the default login / password.

Reviewer 2: minor: Could fit the credentials on the same line, i.e. `Go back on the first tab, then log in with the default login / password (admin/admin).`

Otherwise everything LGTM

Author: I changed it.

> Metalk8s UI

Reviewer: It needs a capital `K` ;)

```suggestion
MetalK8s UI
```

Author: I change it now :)

===========

> 

Reviewer 2: minor: why so many empty lines here: 1 or 2 should be enough

Author: It was for a better visibility, I deleted some line.
Effective with the next commit.
THX

.. todo::

  The following test has been realized on vagrant only - One should list

>   all requirements for reaching the UI using a operationnal cluster.

Reviewer 2: s/a operationnal/an operationnal/?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all requirements for reaching the UI using an operational cluster.
```

Author: Correction done.
Will be effective after the next commit.
THX

Gather required information
----------------------------

Run all following commands as ``root`` on the bootstrap node:

.. code-block:: shell

>       $ ip a show eth1

Reviewer 2: It may not always be `eth1`, no?

Author: From @MonPote : for now it's only on eth1 (on vagrant).

Reviewer 2: Hum, in fact the naming depends on the OS (on my laptop `eth1` is called `enp0s31f6`).

Most of the time the first/default interface is `eth1` because this was the historical naming, and it may be still true for VMs that we have control over, but in "real life" I'm not sure we can be sure that an interface called `eth1` will exists.

Reviewer: It's Vagrant-only - not even valid for CI. We need to change this message (as I already said in a previous review)

Author: I added more precision:
```
Get the workload plane IP of the bootstrap node.
On vagrant you can obtain it with:
.. code-block:: shell

      $ ip a show eth1
```

Please note the IP address, then let's get the port number:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf get svc metalk8s-ui -n kube-system

   NAME                  TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
   metalk8s-ui           NodePort    10.104.61.208   <none>        80:30923/TCP     3h

Please note the port used by metalk8s-ui (here ``30923``)

> Use Metalk8s-ui

Reviewer 2: s/ui/UI/ (it's an acronym)

Author: Correction done.
THX

---------------

Once you have gathered the IP address and the port number, open your
web browser and navigate to the URL ``http://<ip>:<port>``, replacing 
placeholders with the values retrieved before.

The login page is loaded. At the bottom left on the page, click on the link
``Accept SSL Certificat``. On the new tab, click on the button ``Advanced...``
then on ``Accept the risk and continue``

> Go back on the first tab, then log in with the default login / password. 

Reviewer 2: What are the default login/password?

Author: I added them to the doc (at this same line).
THX

> 

Reviewer 2: Why all those empty lines?

Author: For a better visibility, but I will delete some line.
THX

> Metalk8s-UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MetalK8s UI
```

Author: Correction done.
THX

===========

> General Cluster Requirements

Reviewer: The text below is not about "cluster requirements" (which mean sizing of machines, network configuration, etc.). I think it wouldn't hurt to get rid of the section.

Author: Correction done.
THX

----------------------------

To handle the metalk8s-ui the only requirement is to have access to the
bootstrap node.
It's on the bootstrap node that you will get all the required
information.

> .. note:: The following test has been realized on vagrant

Reviewer: That's not a user-facing note, more for developers/writers of this docs. It may be worth to convert it to something like:

```suggestion
.. todo::

   The following procedure has been tested on Vagrant only - one should list
   all requirements for reaching the UI when using a "real" cluster.
```

Author: Correction done.
THX

Gather required information
----------------------------

On the host:

.. code-block:: shell

>    $ vagrant ssh bootstrap

Reviewer: I think it's fine to assume users know how to connect to their bootstrap node (especially after the full deployment) - so you could remove this part IMHO

Author: Correction done.
THX

> Then on the bootstrap node:

Reviewer: This could be:

```suggestion
Run all following commands as ``root`` on the bootstrap node:
```

And remove the `sudo su` line.

.. code-block:: shell

   $ sudo su

>    $ export KUBECONFIG=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf

Reviewer: This one can be removed since we only do one `kubectl` call

>    $ ip a show eth1

Reviewer: This may not work for all deployments, only on Vagrant. Let's replace this with the accurate wording:

```
Please retrieve the workload-plane IP (``ip a show eth1`` for Vagrant) of your bootstrap node.
```

Author: I agree but we specify at the top of the doc that doc is only to use for a vagrant environment.
Is it useful to re-specify it ?

Reviewer: My point is that this document should work for **any** environment, and give some hints for the Vagrant setup.

Please note the IP address, then let's get the port number:

.. code-block:: shell

>    $ kubectl get service -n kube-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ kubectl --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf get svc metalk8s-ui -n kube-system
```

   NAME                  TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
   metalk8s-ui           NodePort    10.104.61.208   <none>        80:30923/TCP     3h

Please note the port used by metalk8s-ui (here ``30923``)

Use Metalk8s-ui
---------------

> Once you have gather all the information, open your web browser then lauch the

Reviewer: Let's be clear:

```suggestion
Once you have gathered the IP and port, open your web browser, then lauch the
```

> developer tools using "Ctrl+Shift+I".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developer tools using :kbd:`Ctrl+Shift+I`.
```

> In the URL, past the IP address and the port used by metalk8s-ui

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the URL, paste the IP address and the port used by metalk8s-ui
```

Reviewer: Actually, the sentence could be enough as:

```suggestion
Navigate to the URL ``http://<ip>:<port>``, replacing placeholders with the values retrieved before.
```

(IP address and port separated by ``:``).

The login page is loaded. in The developer tools, click on the file
:file:`config.json`
You will obtain some URLs (see below)::

  {url: "https://172.21.254.14:6443", url_salt: "http://172.21.254.11:4507"}
  url: "https://172.21.254.14:6443"
  url_salt: "http://172.21.254.11:4507"

take the first URL address and copy-paste it in a new tab.
An alert appear concerning a non-private connection, click on the button
``Advanced`` then click on the link ``Proceed to 172.21.254.14 (unsafe)``.

> Go back on the first tab and reload the page with :kbd:`Ctrl+F5` (clear the cache)

Reviewer: I'm not super fond of this whole paragraph on how to accept the `kube-apiserver` certificate in your browser:

- First, it doesn't explicitly states that we need to, or why.
- Second, the shortcuts / links / names used here may differ between browsers.
- Third, accepting the **cluster CA** (and not just API server certificate) as a trusted authority in your browser will avoid repeating the same process for SaltAPI and Prometheus, once they become secured.

I think we need to work on this slightly more (maybe not in this PR though).

Author: This paragraph doesn't exist anymore due to the process changes.

> Once the page reloaded, log with the default login / password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the page reloaded, log in with the default login / password.
```

Also, why not specify what they are here (`admin/admin` is not unsafe to put in documentation IMO)?

Author: Correction done & default log in / passwd  added.
THX
